---
layout: default
title: MATH-1610
---

# MATH-1610 Fall 2016 Course Syllabus

### When & Where

* Time: Mon, Wed 5:00pm -- 6:40pm
* Room: 218 Goodwyn Hall

### Instructor

* Name: Dr. Tianran Chen
* Email: <tchen1@aum.edu>
* Office: 310A Goodwyn Hall
* Office hour: MW 3pm -- 5pm, TT 2pm -- 3pm
* Web page: <http://www.tianranchen.org>

My job is to help you to succeed in this class.
I will be happy to discuss issues related to this course 
(or anything mathematical) in person or via email.
In addition to the normal office hours listed above,
alternative meeting time may be arranged
(please give me at least 48hr advanced notice).

### What we will learn

This is the first course in the calculus sequence.
We will focus on basic calculus concepts involving functions of one variable:
limits, derivatives, and integrals. 
In this course, conceptual understanding is paramount,
and mathematical rigor will be kept to the minimum.

### Prerequisite

In order to succeed in this class, certain basic mathematical skills are necessary.
In particular, we need to feel comfortable manipulating algebraic expressions
and functions (including trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions).
These prerequisite can be satisfied by any one of the following:

* MATH-1120 (Precalculus algebra) _and_ MATH-1550 (Trigonometry)
* MATH-1150 (Precalculus algebra with trigonometry)
* An ACT Math score of 25 or higher (620 on SAT)
* An appropriate score in the AUM Math Placement Test.

### Textbook

_Calculus: Early Transcendentals_ (6th edition) by Larson & Edwards

Reading assignment and homework problems will be assigned from the textbook.

### Attendance and participation

Participation in in-class discussions and activities is an important part 
of the learning process. 
Therefore class attendance is expected and recorded. 
It is your responsibility to sign the attendance sheet at each class meeting. 
Moreover, in order to get a passing grade you should have attended at least 80% 
of the classes for which attendance was recorded.

### Code of conduct

Please be respectful of other people in the classroom and use common sense.
In particular, please...

* __DO NOT__ use cell phones
* __DO NOT__ use social media
* __DO NOT__ take photos without permission
* __DO NOT__ sleep

Students who violate these rules will be asked to leave the classroom 
and will not be allowed to return until they have spoken privately with me.

### Cheating policy

Cheating of any kind will not be tolerated.
In particular, you cannot copy (totally or partially) someone else's solutions
or allow someone else to copy your solutions on quizzes or exams.
You will receive an "F" in the course if you are caught.
Please consult Student Handbook for addition guidelines.

### Policy for calculators and smart devices

Scientific calculators or equivalent software programs can be helpful in
doing homework problems. 
According to AUM Mathematics Department Calculator Policy,
students are required to have a graphing calculator
(TI-84 is recommended).
The use of such calculators may be required for certain homework problems
or in-class activities.
However, all the quizzes and exams are designed so that no calculator will be needed.
Therefore calculators or any smart devices with internet capabilities 
are not allowed on any of the quizzes and exams.

### Quizzes

There will be a short quiz at the beginning of _every_ class meeting to test
our understanding of the material discussed in the previous meeting.
No makeup quiz will be offered.
However, a missing quiz may be excused if valid reasons
(military assignments, medical issues, family emergency, etc)
and _proper documentation_ are provided _in advance_.
Otherwise, a missing quiz receives a score of zero.

In computing the final scores, _two of the lowest_ quiz scores 
(that are not missed) will be dropped.

### Exams

Two in-class exams constitute an important part of your course grade.
No makeup exams will be offered,
but a missing exam may be excused if valid reasons
(military assignments, medical issues, family emergency, etc)
and _proper documentation_ are provided _in advance_.
Otherwise, a missing exam receives a score of zero.

The mandatory final exam is scheduled at 5:00pm--7:30pm Dec. 5 2016.
It constitutes a major part of your course grade.

### Grade composition

Your final grade is determined according to your overall performance of quizzes, 
the in-class exams, and the final exam, and is calculated according to the 
following weights.

| Component  | Weight |
|------------|--------|
| Attendance |  5%    |
| Quizzes    | 45%    | 
| Exam 1     | 15%    |
| Exam 2     | 15%    |
| Final Exam | 20%    |

### Grading scale 

* A: 90% - 100% 
* B: 80% - 89% 
* C: 65% - 79% 
* D: 55% - 64% 
* F: 54 or below 

Borderline grades are determined by in-class participation 
(in discussions and activities) as well as attendance.

### Suggested homework problems

Practice is a crucial component in the learning process.
The following is a list of good exercise problems.
They will not be collected or graded. 
However, since all exams are very similar to questions from homework, 
doing the homework problems regularly is crucial for our success in this course.

(Ignore questions or parts that requires advanced graphing programs)

* Section 1.3: # 1 – 39; 43 – 71 all odd
* Section 1.5: # 1 – 15; 27 – 33; 71 - 77 all odd 
* Section 1.6: # 1 – 37; 53 – 71; 81 – 109 all odd
* Section 2.1: # 5, 6, 7
* Section 2.2: # 1 – 29 all odd
* Section 2.3: # 5 – 79 all odd
* Section 2.4: # 1 – 59 all odd
* Section 2.5: # 1 – 53 all odd
* Section 3.1: # 1 – 23; 33 – 37; 65 – 79 all odd
* Section 3.2: # 1 – 51; 57 – 69 all odd
* Section 3.3: # 1 – 57; 75 – 85; 97 – 113 all odd
* Section 3.4: # 1 – 33; 43 – 151 all odd
* Section 3.5: # 1 – 75 all odd
* Section 3.6: # 1 – 55 all odd
* Section 3.8: # 5 – 15 all odd 
* Section 4.1: # 1 – 43 all odd
* Section 4.2: # 9 – 21; 39 - 51 all odd
* Section 4.3: # 3 - 63 all odd
* Section 4.4: # 1 – 57 all odd
* Section 4.5: # 1 – 5; 13 - 41 all odd
* Section 4.6: # 1 – 33; 41 - 45 all odd
* Section 4.7: # 3 – 37 all odd
* Section 4.8: # 7 – 35 all odd
* Section 5.1: # 1 – 41; 61 - 67 all odd
* Section 5.2: # 1 – 41; 45 - 59 all odd
* Section 5.3: # 1 – 55; 67 - 71 all odd
* Section 5.4: # 1 – 59; 79 - 97 all odd

## University policies

**Disability accommodations:**
AUM attempts to make reasonable accommodations to meet the special needs of its students with disabilities.
Students who need accommodations are asked to arrange a meeting 
during office hours to discuss your accommodations.
If you have a conflict with my office hours, an alternative time
can be arranged.
To set up thjis meeting, please contact me by e-mail.
If you have not registered for accommodation services through
the Center for Disability Services (CDS), but need accommodations,
make an appointment with CDS, 147 Taylor Center,
or call 334-244-2631 or email CDS at <cds@aum.edu>.

**Student Privacy Policy:** 
The Family Education Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, 
as amended, (FERPA) requires institutions receiving federal monies to protect
the privacy of students' educational records.
For details go to the AUM's FERPA website: <http://www.aum.edu/academics/Registrars-office>

## Calendar

<iframe src="https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?showTitle=0&amp;showNav=0&amp;showPrint=0&amp;showCalendars=0&amp;showTz=0&amp;height=600&amp;wkst=1&amp;bgcolor=%23ffffff&amp;src=do4jkapu6fe5n1vf28d9f4cdf4%40group.calendar.google.com&amp;color=%2328754E&amp;ctz=America%2FChicago" style="border:solid 1px #777" width="800" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>
