---
layout: default
title: MATH-1620
---

# MATH-1620 Fall 2016 Course Syllabus

### When, where, and who

* Time: Tue, Thu 5:00pm -- 6:40pm
* Room: 318 Goodwyn Hall
* Instructor: Dr. Tianran Chen
* Email: <tchen1@aum.edu>
* Course page: <http://www.tianranchen.org/teaching/1620/>
{% include hours.markdown %}

My job is to help you to succeed in this class.
I will be happy to discuss issues related to this course
(or anything mathematical) in person or via email.
In addition to the normal office hours listed above,
alternative meeting time may be arranged
(please give me at least 48hr advanced notice).

### What we will learn

This is the second course in the calculus sequence.
We will discuss more advanced topics in calculus and related areas of mathematics.
In particular, we will cover...

* Deeper subjects involving limits
  - Technical definition of limits
  - Limits of sequences
  - Limits of indeterminate form
* Infinite series
  - Convergence properties
  - Rules for testing Convergence
  - Taylor series of functions
* Important functions
  - Exponential functions
  - Logarithm functions
  - Inverse trigonometric functions
  - Hyperbolic functions
* Simple differential equations
* Describing curves using parametric equations
* Advanced integration techniques
  - Integration by substitution
  - Integration by parts
  - Integration involving inverse trigonometric functions
  - Improper Integrals

### Prerequisite

In order to succeed in this class, a solid understanding of basic calculus is necessary.
These prerequisite can be satisfied by MATH-1610
or an appropriate score in the AUM Math Placement Test.

### Textbook

- _Calculus: Early Transcendentals_ (6th edition) by Larson & Edwards
- _Calculus_ by Gilbert Strang (PDF version is _free_!)
    * [One single big PDF file](http://ocw.mit.edu/ans7870/resources/Strang/Edited/Calculus/Calculus.pdf)
    * [PDF files by chapters](https://ocw.mit.edu/resources/res-18-001-calculus-online-textbook-spring-2005/textbook/)
    * [A few greate video lectures](https://ocw.mit.edu/resources/res-18-005-highlights-of-calculus-spring-2010/highlights_of_calculus/big-picture-of-calculus/)

Reading assignment and homework problems will be assigned from these textbook.

### Attendance and participation

Participation in in-class discussions and activities is an important part
of the learning process.
Therefore class attendance is expected.

### Code of conduct

Please be respectful of other people in the classroom and use common sense.
In particular, please...

* __DO NOT__ use cell phones
* __DO NOT__ use social media
* __DO NOT__ take photos without permission
* __DO NOT__ sleep

Students who violate these rules will be asked to leave the classroom
and will not be allowed to return until they have spoken privately with me.

### Cheating policy

Cheating of any kind will not be tolerated.
In particular, you cannot copy (totally or partially) someone else's solutions
or allow someone else to copy your solutions on quizzes or exams.
You will receive an "F" in the course if you are caught.
Please consult Student Handbook for addition guidelines.

### Policy for calculators and smart devices

Scientific calculators or equivalent software programs can be helpful in
doing homework problems.
According to AUM Mathematics Department Calculator Policy,
students are required to have a graphing calculator
(TI-84 is recommended).
The use of such calculators may be required for certain homework problems
or in-class activities.
However, all the quizzes and exams are designed so that no calculator will be needed.
Therefore calculators or any smart devices with internet capabilities
are not allowed on any of the quizzes and exams.

### Daily quizzes

There will be a short quiz at the beginning of _every_ class meeting to test
our understanding of the material discussed in the previous meeting.
__No makeup quiz will be offered__.
However, a missing quiz may be excused if valid reasons
(military assignments, medical issues, family emergency, etc)
and _proper documentation_ are provided _in advance_.
Otherwise, a missing quiz receives a score of zero.

In computing the final scores, _one of the lowest_ quiz scores
(that are not missed) will be dropped.

### Final exam

The mandatory final exam is scheduled at 1:30pm--3:00pm May 3rd 2017.
It constitutes a major part of your course grade.
The final exam consists of two parts:

- The _core part_ tests basic understanding of fundamental concepts.
  In order to earn a passing grade (D or higher) one must achieve
  80% or higher on this part.
- The _other part_ is just the regular type of comprehensive exam.

### Grade composition

Your final grade is determined according to your overall performance of quizzes,
the in-class exams, and the final exam, and is calculated according to the
following weights.

| Component  | Points |
|------------|--------|
| Worksheet  |  250   |
| Quizzes    |  500   |
| Projects   |  200   |
| Final Exam |   50   |

### Grading scale

* A: 90% - 100%
* B: 80% - 89.9%
* C: 70% - 79.9%
* D: 60% - 69.9%
* F: below 60% or fail to achieve 80% on the "core" part of the final exam

Borderline grades are determined by in-class participation
(in discussions and activities) as well as attendance.

### Suggested homework problems

Practice is a crucial component in the learning process.
Certain exercise problems will be assigned in class.
They will not be collected or graded.
However, since all exams are very similar to questions from homework,
doing the homework problems regularly is crucial for our success in this course.

## University policies

**Disability accommodations:**
AUM attempts to make reasonable accommodations to meet the special needs of its students with disabilities.
Students who need accommodations are asked to arrange a meeting
during office hours to discuss your accommodations.
If you have a conflict with my office hours, an alternative time
can be arranged.
To set up thjis meeting, please contact me by e-mail.
If you have not registered for accommodation services through
the Center for Disability Services (CDS), but need accommodations,
make an appointment with CDS, 147 Taylor Center,
or call 334-244-2631 or email CDS at <cds@aum.edu>.

**Student Privacy Policy:**
The Family Education Rights and Privacy Act of 1974,
as amended, (FERPA) requires institutions receiving federal monies to protect
the privacy of students' educational records.
For details go to the AUM's FERPA website: <http://www.aum.edu/academics/Registrars-office>

## Course schedule

Below is the tentative schedule.
Please be aware that changes may be announced in class or via email.

<iframe src="https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?showTitle=0&amp;showNav=0&amp;showPrint=0&amp;showCalendars=0&amp;showTz=0&amp;height=600&amp;wkst=1&amp;bgcolor=%23FFFFFF&amp;src=qlsurb5gsna1hslnokeu39963g%40group.calendar.google.com&amp;color=%2329527A&amp;ctz=America%2FChicago" style="border:solid 1px #777" width="800" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

The instructor reserves the right to adjust the policies outlined in this course syllabus.
All changes will be clearly communicated to the students in class.
